version - creates new versions of disc files (digital recordings)

version output[b] amplitude[bvpn] increment[bvpn] filename[s] channel[vpn] 
 a[vpn] b[vpn] c[vpn] d[vpn] tau[vpn] Rorig[vpn] Forig[vpn] 
  ipos[vpnd] fpos[vpnd] lasto[vpnd] ptr[vpnd] sum[vpnd] ;

version is a unit generator which creates a new version of a sound
which is stored on a soundfile.  The new version may have a new pitch
or duration or both.  Thus a digitally recorded note from an acoustic
instrument may be retuned to a new pitch, and/or lengthened or
shortened.  The output is scaled by amplitude, allowing new amplitudes,
amplitude modulation, or new envelopes to be superimposed. The
increment value specifies the frequency to be generated (e.g.,
"440Hz"), the Forig value specifies the frequency of the original file
as an increment (e.g., "220Hz").  The original sampling rate is given
by the Rorig argument.  As in the sndfile unit generator, the filename
argument must be a string variable which has been defined with the name
of the soundfile to be accessed, and the channel number selects which
out of several possible channels on the file is to be used.  The a, b,
c, and d values specify the sample numbers of the start of the note (on
the file), the start of the (possibly repeated) steady state, the end
of the (possibly repeated) steady state, and the end of the note,
respectively.  The tau value specifies the number of samples to be used
in a cross-faded transition between the end of one steady state and the
beginning of the next, or between the first part of the note and the
decay section (which starts at sample c).  A good value for tau will
probably be the number of samples in a pitch period of the original
sound.  The last 5 arguments (there are 15 in all) will normally be
d's.  It is an error to try to play a new version of a note which has
fewer samples in it than the decay portion of the original (d-c
samples).
